Let's learn Haskell, Rust, Python, Go, PureScript, TypeScript, Crystal!


============ OWNER : Esa Koskinen, esakoskin2@gmail.com ==================

WalkerJS notes:



---------------

2018-10-13

Title screen and pre-game UI/UX.

The first load should have a black-on-white full screen reminder, which requires a mouse click or button press anywhere:
"This game is not suitable for children.
The game relies on color and may not view properly with color-changing or high-contrast settings. However, accessibility settings are provided in the options menu."

The text should fade-in and fade-out. If no action is taken for 3 seconds, fade in "Click/tap to continue"

After that, there are two screens with large-font opening text - Money Match Games presents (2s) - The 40th game by Esa Koskinen (2s) - (enter main menu)

Main menu has white background, black text and buttons. New/load game buttons, and an options menu are available.

Options menu has two panels. On the left it lets the player change master volume, enter fullscreen, enable debug, or access accessibility menu, and the right has a mention on game being playable with mouse only.


---------------

2018-10-12

A word on nightly cutscenes.

They represent the main character's thoughts in the evening, when they are setting into bed and done for the day. Random thoughts swirl around their head, with mild tiredness giving way for true (and possibly dark/suppressed) feelings to come out.

The cutscenes show a sentence/thought at a time, and progress when clicked. Clicking does a smooth and slow sideways transition to next text and changes background tint (RBG moods), usually not touching the base mood color. The cutscenes develop the story and imagery behind the relationship and world by posing questions the main character has about their situation. Reaching conclusions to questions is less common, mainly the character decides what to do, based on their mood level/pattern/situation.

Cutscene data is stored in a separate file, with referrals to (translatable) game text variables and hardcoded data on line-by-line background colors, transition speeds, and font size/style. Each cutscene should also contain a function that tests whether cutscene is accessible (including tests for date range, companion presence and relationship, held items, mood levels, distance in the world). Finally, a cutscene should contain a function that runs when the cutscene is seen, for example improving/decreasing main character mood, unlocking new buttons or interface tabs, or providing them with an item.

At the end of the day, an unseen cutscene is chosen at random from the possibilities (including generic mood-dependent ones which can be seen multiple times). A cutscene can also be flagged as high-priority, which will display on the same night when triggered.


Each cutscene should also be flagged as either positive or negative. This is used when stitching multiple cutscenes together, which can be helpful for neutral non-priority things discussing the day's events. A "positive follow-up" is used when both cutscenes are either positive or negative, and a "negative follow-up" is used when their mood differs.
Positive - ("Furthermore," "Additionally," ", not to mention that" "In addition to that," "Even worse, / better,")
Negative - ("At any rate," "Despite that," "Regardless," "However,")

Why do this? Example:

(I was pretty tired today, however, really glad to have found a sweet item!) vs
(She's dead. This sucks. Furthermore, really glad to have found a sweet item!)

These display with a neutral BG color, dependent on mood.


---------------

2018-10-12

Even more on colors.

There are also blend colors - yellow, purple, aqua, and white.

Yellow - Red and green. The characters get in a happy romantic relationship, focusing on themselves. Difficult to get.
Purple - Red and blue. The characters start as business partners but end up in a cold relationship. Even more difficult.
Aqua - Green and blue. Basically the main character places the world on the highest priority, maximizing utility.
White - The ultimate happy ending. Requires very careful balancing of all the colors, familiarity with story, and skilled strategy. The main character ends their quest happily and won't time travel again.


Regular "colorless" mood endings are black, dark grey, and light grey.
Black features a "game over" before the time is up, basically by rejecting the companion on all occasions and falling into despair, leading into suicide. This is the regular "bad ending".
Dark grey is the typical "first playthrough ending", which requires meeting and teaming up but parting with the girl early, before the player has an idea of the companion's importance. It is the regular ending, induced for most players by losing and getting Black ending, then trying again but attempting to stay alive.
Light grey is the failed light red ending. It is a neutral ending that may or may not involve the companion, but which has a general "meh" feeling to it, as the characters live happily but feel that there is more that they could have done.


At the end of either black or dark grey ending, a client-server connection is made, where the player receives a player-submitted suggestion (if server is available and not undefined, prewritten hint otherwise), and can submit their own (using a single-line text field). Various checks are made (spelling and redline against SOWPODS, and silent rejection if swearwords are used). The text submission has a single sentence maximum.
The main character says "Should I have done things differently in life? Did I do a mistake somewhere? Yeah, maybe I should have tried {insert a randomly picked player submission, trimmed and in noncapital letters}."
"...Or maybe not. I'm not sure if that sounds like a good idea. God, if you actually exist... I pray to you, please tell me what I should have done differently?"
The submission text field opens, with text "Your answer to the plea: [    ]"


---------------

2018-10-12

More on colors.

Black-White is a general mood factor. It basically measures the feelings of the main character on a scale between depressed and giddy. Generally the long-term changes to it are very gradual, but there can be a few events with huge impact. Resting, talking with the companion, and finding nice items give a good momentary boost.


Red measures the level of selfish love. Basically this is the neediness of the main character, and their want/lust towards the companion or other characters.
A dark red tint hints towards very needy behavior, a deep and strong desire towards approval and gaining a sense of safety by interacting with the companion. The companion finds this behavior a bit off-putting - while responding sympathetically at first, it will creep them out as the main character becomes more and more addicted to their presence (enforced by stronger but shorter positive mood swings from asking for hugs). The main character considers whether it is wrong of them to feel this way, to ask for closeness and approval when they really need it - presenting a yes/no choice to the player.
The player answering that being needy is okay will only make them more needy. This forcing the companion to leave them and puts the player in a tight spot (possibly suicide ending). Surviving leads to dark red ending, with main character feeling a deep lack of support and leaving them alone to lead an unsatisfied life.
Answering that it is not okay will force the player's red tint to subside and their addiction to lower over time. The player will have an option to honestly discuss this. If they don't, things will continue dark red and companion leaves them, but if they do, the companion will be supportive (although apprehensive and exhausted) of them. In this, the main character will regain their natural mood functionality, and the companion will not leave them. However, the companion will become depressed and impaired instead, slowing down. Ditching them will put the player on a blue course, while staying will put them on a green one.
A light red indicates that the main character is somewhat needy, but also loving and enjoyable to be around. The companion will have fun with them, and be willing to part with their energy. The two have a symbiotic relationship with differing weaknesses (PC neediness, companion slow/rest), but mutual benefits (PC constant high mood, companion speed improves over time). The mood bonuses fade over time, putting the player on the path of a light grey ending.
However, a slightly more romantic light red ending can be achieved if the player repeatedly puts in effort for the companion, sacrificing a lot of game progress by doing so. (This could happen by companion falling ill, putting the player in a tight spot and testing if they will follow through by losing many resources they worked hard to attain). If the player gives up early on the test, they will receive light grey ending, otherwise the characters will live happily together, supporting and loving each other despite their lack of money and resources.


Green measures the level of selfless feelings. This indicates a want for the main character to do things for the companion and others. At the end of a green path, the player should be tested, with the companion wanting to do increasingly selfish acts and the player choosing whether to part from them or to be together.
A dark green can indicate several things, such as need for companion approval through self-sacrifice, or overboard altruism with no self-regard, or selfless acts with ulterior motives. Basically it indicates doing things for others, not out of direct love towards them, but because of strong inner drive. However, this leaves the main character in a neglected state, slowly destroying their capability to progress and even drives away the people they worked so hard to please. If the companion is with them, their relationship turns borderline abusive, with completely one-sided "love". If the companion is gone, it ends up with exhaustion and burn-out at trying to improve the world, ultimately reaching neither the main character nor the world's goals. The main character should make this realization in the final cutscene, and lament their loneliness.
A light green indicates a platonic friendship, which doesn't develop into romantic love. The player character does things for their companion, while taking care of their own mood and feelings. The game should provide a possibility to level up the companion speed by sacrificing one's mood permanently. However, when rarely used, one should end up with a light green ending, with them living their days happily as travellers with a love towards the world. When used a lot while staying at high mood, the player transitions to blue routes in the final days. When used a lot without staying at high mood, a dark green ending ensues. If the player starts caring for the world over their companion once the other starts being selfish or requiring game progression over altruism, the companion leaves. This light green variant ends with the main character realizing that it feels good to help others, finding balance between their actions and the world, and attains inner peace.



Blue measures the level of results-orientedness. While aligned with rational choices, it is not exclusive towards the other two colors. However, being only blue means focusing on the gameplay elements more than the actual characters/story and the choices one makes. Neglecting the game for a long time can force one to gain a blue tint, as well as spending a lot of time optimizing items and money. Ditching the partner early (before realizing their significance) does not gain blue tint, but ditching them late does.
A dark blue is someone who emotionlessly pursues direct goals and is willing to sacrifice anything to meet them. The companion will be left behind early. Managing to play the game like this without dying will give the greatest overall speed over time, and lead to the secret/bad/genocide-ish dark blue ending with lots of speed and breaking of the fourth wall, rendering the game permanently without the companion appearing. If the player manages to clear the game even under such harsh conditions, they have a choice of "resetting" and bringing the companion back to future playthroughs.
A light blue is someone who is uplifting and happy to move forward, but also has some care for others and takes emotions into account while planning, leading to greater overall happiness for both them and everyone around. They will be friends with the companion, and lead them both to a life of abundance but no love or physical care for each other. The characters will see each other as strictly business partners, but find happiness from within and are content with the situation.



---------------

2018-10-12

Game goal and idea, from a story perspective.

Playable character (PC) is suffering from depression, and needs to balance mood with progression. At times, they may suffer from a bad day, with low "spoons" available. At such times, the companion may become slightly frustrated with the PC, first asking them to hurry up, then noting that the slowdown is not characteristic of them, and finally "What's wrong with you? You were running just fine yesterday, but we've barely made progress today!"

Companion is not without sympathy, but is fairly results-oriented and has good relationships with many friends. Unless player is very skilled or has made a particular chain of choices, they leave the PC with little thought, thinking that everyone in the world has a support network and thus the PC will be fine without them. They are clearly extroverted, and absorb the good vibes from their surroundings, having a bit of difficulty understanding introversion or depression.



---------------

2018-06-12

Straining.

Running really fast for a long period of time puts strain on the body. At some point after reaching a high speed and running for a while without rest, the main character starts accumulating strain. With strain, first the screen starts periodically getting -30 mood pulses every 2-3 seconds (like heartbeat), then at shorter intervals and accompanied with sound effects, and finally the character "breaks", the screen goes deep red for a moment and starts fading back. Permanent -30 mood penalty, and one of the buttons the player had is randomly disabled.

The player can recover one of the disabled buttons by resting for 1 day (but be left with mood penalty), or avoid getting any penalty by resting for 2 days. However, time is precious...

This system makes the game more dynamic, and makes the player think about straining themselves too much despite their important (?) goal. Strain event should be dramatic and scary, to heighten the emotional impact. The sound effects are crucial.

Just like in real life, injuries can also be immediate and surprising. They may leave a permanent disability, leading to a mood impact due to slow progress. This should be shocking to players, and put them to reconsider their attitude towards topics of safety and disability.


Competitions / items.

Every now and then, main character will come across items with random stats a la Diablo etc. These items will have fairly strong and varied effects, changing gameplay strategies with their combinations. Each item should have a strong upside, with a moderate-high downside. Up to three items can be equipped at once, and the items can be sold for money (!). Finding great combinations is one of the key interests.

There can also be running competitions with various goals, e.g. longest distance in a given time or shortest time for a given distance, with or without energy replenishment, with periodic energy replenishment, with or without weights (passive, absolute number penalty to speed), etc. Using items to win money at these events can be of strategic interest. Player may also be interested in trade-off of selling an item to get immediate cash, since future competitions may or may not require the item.

Item effects may also include faster recovery of specific actions. Faster recovery of "step forward" is particularly valuable.


---------------

2018-06-09

Core gameplay is as follows.

The game is about balancing moving forward, manging your mood, and making sure you don't run out of energy. This is accomplished be exchanging each resource for others in a fairly controlled but somewhat unpredictable way. The game should not be frustrating, but provide food for thought; the idea is that through their interpretation of the game mechanics, the player may gain insight about their own lives or of those around them. A core idea is that the main character is highly introverted, maybe even depressed or suicidal, while their companion is extroverted.

Energy - spend by moving forward and being social, replenished by rest and being alone.
Mood - spend by not making progress or through events, gain by being social or through events.
Fatigue - spend through time, gain by spending money on food. Affects energy use.
Sleep - lose mood if sleeping in poor conditions, gain mood if sleeping in good conditions (risk/reward thinking, paying money for a premium)

Essentially, not moving forward will conserve energy at the cost of mood, while moving forward and interacting with the world costs energy but improves mood. Furthermore, mood has three types, which the player can influence through their choices. These mood changes have various effects on the events that the player will come across, as well as their relation with the companion.

The idea is to provide cognitive dissonance through the breakup with the companion character; a "loving/emotional" player will come across heartbreak through poverty/disease (prompting them to be rational), a "generous" player will come across heartbreak through perceived clinginess and poor relationship balance/dynamic (prompting them to be emotional), and a "rational" player will have to choose between money or the companion (prompting them to be generous). A "calculative", super efficient player will have the choice between a few extra stat points and mood immunity, but they need to harm the environment with gradually more impactful selfish acts, eventually killing the companion to achieve the highest performance. The main character will question their choices ("what was it all for..?"), and ultimately take their own life.

The general "goal" is to advance through the game, moving forward as much as possible each day. Low mood acts as a multiplier for energy consumption, which encourages to move forward, but this is kept in check by increasing fatigue and mood loss multiplier when too much is happening in a short time. In other words, the player character gets exhausted if they encounter constant social situations, despite it being beneficial for mood in the short term.

Another goal is to control hunger and lodging; by sleeping outside with a hungry stomach, one naturally loses a lot of mood. On the other hand, searching for food or paying for accommodation costs time and money respectively. Money can be gained by trading real-world time for money, the rate and maximum amount of which depends on location.

One day in-game takes around two to ten minutes to go through, with a 20-50 sec cutscene. With 30 days, the whole game takes about 150-200 minutes. Endings are varied and depend on general mood and choices.


---------------

2018-04-16

Remove merchant elements unless it's crucial to core gameplay - if the game can't stand without them, it's not engaging enough. Consider towns and merchant stuff only after completing the main thing.

Perhaps key items should be separate from merchantable/single-use items. If so, separate item space into tabs that transition left-to-right if tabs on top, up-to-down if tabs on left edge (would be interesting UI, although less intuitive UX? Also horiz space is the bottleneck.)

For events and whether to pause gameplay - energy is consumed as normal, and the game can be considered "paused" once that happens (after sufficient unlocks). Change tab title to *** EVENT *** as in A Dark Room whenever a pop-up happens. Pop-ups could have a variable defining whether they should pause movement or not. Meetings and towns should (unless turned off/ignored by player??), while finding resources should simply be noted in menu. As for UX, text fadeoff is implemented as static alpha mask in ADR, that is probably the best since it does not require constant watching. Prepend private variables/classmembers/constants with an underscore, and add jQuery for easier class handling.

In order to make core gameplay more interesting, we could add emphasis on step back, etc. Make the player character feel how he becomes accustomed to the running, and what kinds of things he notices after becoming more fit and emotionally stable. Also make player wonder about what the road is about. Is this the road of life? What am I making progress towards? Am I trying to get somewhere, or running from something? Is this path the right one? What am I trying to accomplish, anyway? Is this road leading somewhere? Is there any meaning to this? Am I moving forwards, or backwards? Which way does this road take me? ...Am I getting over her, or simply wallowing in pain (conclusion dependent on mood, possibly)? Is there something else I could do? (productivity +10, wrt Novin viesti, maybe unlock the unlockability of on-rest activities)?


Unlock UI one-by-one by stepping forward, but what would be useful/interesting to unlock? What is the downside of unlocking something? Is it possible to press the button and not unlock anything? What in-theme message could be displayed if user tries to repeatedly unlock things? At what timing is the relationship of mood and energy displayed? Less details at first, can give more exact info even about the same items. (little vs 15 vs 15 (+2/sec))

When does mood change? Specifically, what increases it? Hearing the girl talk? Does the girl always talk when she has something to say and you take a rest? Does taking a rest reduce mood or energy gain if girl says nothing? What makes you want to try harder in life? ...Under consideration.

Will the ending be fixed at 20-40 days, or will the game continue until some kind of closure is reached? I guess mood drops could be more frequent if no hope is in sight, leading to exhaustion, no energy, no progress, and eventually to either suicide or death from overexertion.

Will food/shelter be mandatory? Does the protagonist figure out that they are carrying supplies, without noticing at first (due to low mood and no steps back)? Shelter should impact mood, food obiously would be interesting due to energy vs time/money and planning tradeoffs but requires lots of management and separate tracking of hunger. What about spoilage? One dynamically interesting solution would be to have "general ration" items, which are consumed twice per day. This forces the player to estimate risk, and eating takes a long time to finish. Description: "Bland but filling rations, containing (vegetable paste/food-edible/prepareable-on-the-go, something without spoiling) and water."

What is the opening story of the game? The protagonist has travelled back in time, exhausted and only knowing that they must keep moving forward. Why? Because in previous timeline, they knew that they could reach/re-meet the girl if they move forward fast enough to catch up. The time travel is rough, and causes fatigue, depression, and amnesia until a certain amount of time has passed. Then you remember everything - that you travelled through time, witnessing a plethora of possibilities unravel before your eyes. Running back to the starting point to find your time machine, you decide to give future another shot (resetting the game, but again either you or the girl die; there is no changing what is meant to happen (suddenly wtf this is like steins gate lol)).

IF you decide to give the player an out from the grip of fate, implement it late and only after the best of ideas. Don't let it be half-assed or incomplete, or emotionally easy - make it the highlight for the type of player who would super-optimize everything, and force them to never pick up the game ever again. Don't cut things to please them, though - you need to cater to the 99.2% audience first.

Is the game always in initial state, or is there "prestige"? I guess the player could unlock "cheats", e.g. a 2x speed mode after completion (ADR hyper mode implemented as simply cutting cooldowns in two). However, why not make that available to all as accessibility settings? (Actually good idea)

Is there a high score list or something, to track amount of steps taken by player? No, but there is a VERY BAD ENDING for players who try to over-optimize everything. Think in the vein of Mother 2 cheater mode or Undertale G-route.

Are the main characters genderless? That is should the girl be written as your ideal girl, but referred to as "companion" and "they" in all instances in-game? The meeting would be the hardest, but maybe... "They are strikingly beautiful, and you immediately feel a twinge of attraction towards this person." Need to think about this, but it would require rendering protagonist genderless too. Quite possibly a good thing; just don't let it affect the writing of the characters themselves, their integrity must not be compromised.





----------------

2018-04-12

Don't allow the game to be such that one plays it and thinks "it's nice, but not sure what the point is..."; ensure the girl and hook is so engaging that people will want to know what happens next ("no! what about the girl?? what happened? I need to know how this thing turns out ;__; ")

Green route (meet girl, go together, happy lives, good ending, standard for 1st playthrough)

Blue route (merchant)

Red route (lovesick, "bad" i.e. best ending):
You see a person in the distance.
The person looks like a young woman, perhaps in her early 20s.
She is just standing there. You wonder who she is.
You approach the girl, and she asks whether she could accompany you. You agree.

(if moving at high speed)
The both of you are moving at a fast pace. She seems to have a bit of difficulty keeping up with the pace.
You are forging on, and she is starting to lose breath. Perhaps it is time for a rest.
It is clear this girl is slowing you down a bit.
The young woman is holding you back. Will you move ahead without her? (y/n)

(if changing speeds/taking two rests)
After resting, she seems to have regained her energy.
Taking a break seems to have improved her stamina.
(After steps forward) While she has less physical strength, she is clearly getting more with each rest.

(she catches up to you, non-insane speed)
A girl catches up with you. She says: Well, I certainly don't see many people here! Where are you hea-- ...Wait, are you the person I met earlier? ...Hahaha. What a coincidence! I've learnt from our previous encounter, and have much better endurance now. Mind if I tag along? I won't slow you down again, promise. (y/n)

(she catches up to you, insane speed)
Someone is approaching. You feel the ground tremble.
Girl: Hey... There... You... Are...
I've been running non-stop for a while now, and finally caught up.

It's.. Um... Sorry. I don't mean that I chased after you. It's just... After our encounter, I couldn't stop thinking about you... So I decided to become faster than you, no matter what it takes, and catch up!

...How are you doing? Must be pretty lonely here, huh? ...Ha ha.

(She never catches up)
... The player is an emotionless super-optimizer, this should require multiple playthroughs to pull off.


(if moving at very slow speed, or taking multiple breaks (harder to achieve, second-fourth playthrough thing, kind of hinted by above))
Girl: Are you tired as well?
We still have a long way to go. Let's keep moving.
Look, we have to keep moving.
Can't you hurry up a bit?
I understand that you are tired, but can you step it up?
...
...
Look, I need to get to my next destination faster than this. What's wrong? Are you not feeling well?
...Sorry, but I'll be leaving you behind if you continue at this pace.
...
Sorry, but I really need to go ahead. Do your best now, OK? (The girl picks up the pace and leaves you behind.)
(You wonder if you will meet with the girl again, somewhere.)
(She seemed to have urgent business, and you can't help wondering why she was in a hurry.)
(She seemed kind of cute, too... You wonder where she went.)
(You can't stop thinking about that girl.)
(...)
(...)
(The girl is still bothering you. Who was she? Why did she tag along despite being in a hurry?)
(...)
(You wish you could have done something for her.)


(You catch up, medium speed)
Encounter as traders, she doesn't remember you, rejection, deep depression and continue forever with low mood

(You catch up, insane speed)
(She is dead, and you go back in time)

(You never catch up [exceed day 40])
(You commit suicide)


